# Holding Your Objects

- It's a simple problem that only has a _fixed quantity_ of objects with _known lifetime_.

- Because before the program runs, you don't know followed things:

  - (1) The type of objects
  - (2) The quantity of objects
  - (3) The lifetime of objects

- So you need something to manage objects (anytype, anytime, anynumber)
- __Solution__:
  - (1) Array ( Compiler-supported )
    - Best choice for _primitives_
    - Shortcoming : Fixed Size
  - (2) Container (Java.util.Collection)

## Generics and type-safe containers (For type issue)

- [ApplesAndOrangesWithoutGenerics.java](Exercise/ApplesAndOrangesWithoutGenerics.java)
- [ApplesAndOrangesWithGenerics.java](./Exercise/ApplesAndOrangesWithGenerics.java)
- [GenericsAndUpcasting.java](./Exercise/GenericsAndUpcasting.java)

## Two Basic Concepts

- (1) Collection : a sequence of individual elements with one or more _rules_
  - List : insert-order
  - Set : No-duplicated
  - Queue : queue-discipline
  - Demo : Add an element into collection ([SimpleCollection.java](Exercise/SimpleCollection.java))
- (2) Map : a group of key-value object pairs
  - Look up an object using another object

## Add group of elements

- Arrays.asList() : (need to deal...)
- addAll() : (Array, List, Collection) ---> Collection
- Demo : [AddGroup.java](Exercise/AddGroups.java)

## Printing container

- Arrays : Arrays.toString()
- Container : toString()
- A picture ...

## ArrayList / LinkedList / Queue / Stack / Set / Map


## Interface vs. Iterator

In C++, collections have no common interface named Collection.
All methods in common are implemented in Iterator.
In Java, collections and Iterator are binding together.
All collections are viewed to have been implemented Iterator

Demo : CollectionSequence.java


If your class already inherits from another class, you cannot inherit from AbstractCollection. In that case, to avoid implementing all interface in Collection, here is an easier way to achieve it.

Demo : NonCollectionSequence.java

Producing an Iterator is the least-coupled way of connecting a sequence to a method that consumes that sequence, and puts far fewer constrains on the sequence class than does implementing Collection interface.

## Foreach vs. iterators

For-in statement can be used for any class that implements Iterable.

Demo : IterableClass.java

- Note : Array is not an Iterable class
- Demo : ArrayIsNotIterable.java




