# Streams

Collections optimize the storage of objects. Streams are about processing group of objects.

- Most of the time, the reason you store objects in a collection is to process them, you will find yourself moving focus away from collections, and towards streams.

- Instead of iterating through elements in a collection, with a stream you can draw elements from pipe and operate on them. These pipes are typically strung together to form a pipeline of operations upon the stream.

- A stream is a sequence of elements that is not associated with any particular storage mechanism-indeed, we say that streams have "no storage".

- One of the core benefits of streams is that they make your program smaller and easier to understand. Lambda expressions and method references come with their own when used with streams.

- Demo : Randoms.java

- Notes
    - foreach() performs an operation on each stream object.
    - Randoms.j declares no variables. Streams can model systems that have state without using assignment or mutable data, and this can be very useful.

- _Declarative programming_ is a style where we state _what_ want done, rather than specifying _how_, and it is what you see in functional programming.  
    Notice it is much more difficult to understand the _imperative_ form:
    - [ImperativeRandoms.java](./Exercise/ImperativeRandoms.java)
    
- Notes
    - Explicitly writing the mechanics of iteration as in __ImperativeRandoms__ is called _external iteration_. 
    - In _Randoms_, you don't see any of these mechanisms and so it is called _internal iteration_, a core characteristic of streams programming. 
    - Internal iteration produces (1) more readable code, and it also (2) makes it easier to use multiple processors : By loosing control of how iteration happens, you can hand that control over to a paralleling mechanism.

- (3) Another important aspect of streams is that they are _lazy_, which means they are only evaluated when necessary. You can think of a stream as a delay list. Because of delayed evaluation, streams enable us to represent vary large (even infinite) sequence without memory concerns. 

## Streams support in 

- Designers faced a conundrum. They had an existing set of libraries, used not only within the library themselves, bu tin millions of code lines wirtten by users. How could they integrate the new, fundamental concept of streams into existing libraries ?

- In simple cases like _Randoms_, they could just add more methods. As long as the existing methods were not changed, code would not get disturbed.

- The big challenge came from libraries that used interfaces. Collection classes are an essential part of this, because you want to convert collections into streams. But if you add a new method to an interface, you break every class that implements the interface but doesn't implement your new method.

- The solution, introduced in J8, is __default__ methods in interfaces. With __default__ methods, the J designers can shoehorn stream methods into existing classes, and they added virtually every operation you might need.  
 
 There are three types of operations:
    - creating streams
    - modifying elements of a stream (intermediate operations)
    - consuming stream elements (terminal operations)
    
### Stream Creation

- You can easily turn a group of items into a stream using __Stream.of(T ... arr)__

- Demo : [StreamOf.java](./Exercise/StreamOf.java)

- In addition, every Collection can produce a stream using the __stream()__ method:

- Demo : [CollectionToStream.java](./Exercise/CollectionToStream.java)

### Random number streams

- The random class has been enhanced with a set of methods to produce streams.

- Demo : [RandomGenerators.java](./Exercise/RandomGenerators.java)

- Note : The __Random__ class only produces the primitive types (int, long, double). But generics method show() can only work with Integer, Long, Double. Fortunately, the _boxed_ stream operation automatically converts the primitives to their boxed counterparts, thus enabling show to accept the stream.

- Demo : [RandomWords.java](./Exercise/RandomWords.java)

- Notes : 
    - In main() and toString(), you see the collect() operation, which combines all the stream elements according to its argument. When you use Collection.joining(), you get a String result, with each element separated by the argument in joining(). They are numerous other Collectors to produce different results.
    - In main(), we see a preview of Stream.generate(), which takes any Supplier<T> and produces a stream of T objects.

### Range of ints

- The IntStream class provides a range() method to produce a stream that is a sequence of ints. This can be convenient when writing loops.

- Demo : [Ranges.java](./Exercise/Ranges.java)

- To replace simple for loop, here is a repeat() utility.
- Demo : Repeat.

#### generate() again

- Demo : Generator.java
- Demo : Duplicator.java

- Demo : Bubbles.java
- Note : This is an alternative approach to creating a separate factory class. In many ways it is neater, but it is a matter of taste and code organization.

#### iterate()

- Stream.iterate() starts with a seed (the first argument) and passes it to the method (the second argument). The result is added to the stream and also stored for use as the first argument the next time iterate() is called and so on.

- Demo : [Fibonacci.java](./Exercise/Fabonacci.java)

- Note : we use _skip()_ operation, which discards the number of stream elements specified by its argument.

#### Stream Builders

- In builder design pattern, we create a builder object, give it multiple pieces of construction information and finally perform 'create' action. The Stream library provides such a Builder.  
Here, we revisit the process of reading a file and turning it into a stream of words:

- Demo : FileToWordsBuilder.java

- Note : 
    The constructor adds all words from the file, but it doesn't call build(). This means, as long as you don't call stream(), you can continue to add words to the builder object. In a more complete version of this class, you might add a flag to see whether build() has been called, and a method to add further words if possible. Trying to add to a Stream.Builder after calling build() produces an exception.
    

#### Arrays

- Arrays have static method stream() to turn a array into a stream.

- Demo : Machine2.java

#### Regex

- __Pattern__ class takes a sequence of characters and splits it into a stream. There is a constraint, which is that the input is a CharSequence ,so you cannot feed a stream into splitAsStream().

- Demo : [FileToWordsRegexp.java](./Exercise/FileToWordsRegexp.java)

- Note : 
    This time you can come back and call stream() multiple times, creating a new stream from the stored String each time.   
    The limit here is that the whole file must be stored in memory; most of the time that probably won't be an issue but it loses important benefits of streams:
    - (1) They don't require storage. Of course, they actually require some internal storage, but it is only a fraction of the sequence, and nothing like what it takes to hold the entire sequence.
    - (2) They are lazily evaluated.

Fortunately, we'll see how to solve this problem a bit later.

## Intermediate Operation

 These operations take objects in from one stream and feed objects out the back end as another stream, to be connected to other operations.

### Tracing and Debugging

- The peek() operation is intended as an aid to debugging. It allows you to view stream objects without modifying them.

- Demo : [Peeking.java](./Exercise/Peeking.java)

### Sorting Stream Elements

- Demo : [SortedComparator.java](./Exercise/SortedComparator.java)

- Note : you can pass in a lambda function as the argument for sorted(), there are also pre-defined __Comparator__s.

### Removing Elements

- _distinct()_: remove duplicates from the stream. Using distinct() is for less work than creating a Set to eliminate duplicates.

- _filter(Predicate)_ : The filter operation keeps only the elements that produce __true__ when passed to the argument : the _filter function_.

- Demo : [Prime.java](./Exercise/Prime.java)

- Note : 
    rangeClosed() includes the top boundary value.   
    The noneMatch() operation returns true if no modules produces zero, and false if any equal zero. 
    noneMatch() quits after the first failure rather than trying them all.
    
### Applying a function to each element

- __map(Function)__ : applies Function to every object in the input stream, passing in the result values as the output stream.

- mapToInt(ToIntFunction)
- mapToLong(ToLongFunction)
- mapToDouble(ToDoubleFunction)

- Demo : [FunctionMap.java](./Exercise/FunctionMap.java)

### Combining Streams during map()

- There is a problem : map() produces a stream. What you want is to produce a stream of elements, but instead you are producing a stream of streams of elements.

- flatMap() does two things :
    - it takes your stream-producing function and applies it to incoming elements (like map())
    - then it takes each stream and flattens it into elements.

- So what comes out is just elements:
    - flatMap(Function) : Use when Function produces a stream
    - flatMapToInt(Function) : produce an IntStream
    - FlatMapToLong(Function) : LongStream
    - flatToDouble(Function) : DoubleStream
    
- Demo : 
    [StreamOfStreams.java](./Exercise/StreamOfStreams.java)
    [FlatMap.java](./Exercise/FlatMap.java)
    [StreamOfRandoms.java](./Exercise/StreamOfRandoms.java)

- TODO
    FileToWords.java / FileToWordsTest.java

## Optional

- Before we can look at terminal operations, we must consider what happens if you ask for an object in a stream and there is nothing there. We like to connect up our streams and assume nothing will break. 
- Pulling a null in a stream is a good way to break it. Is there some kind of object we can use that will act as a holder for a stream element, but can also kindly tell us id the element we are looking for isn't there?
- This idea is implemented as the __Optional__ type. Certain standard stream operations return Optional objects because they cannot gurantee the desire result will exist. These include:
    - findFirst() : returns an Optional containing the first element, or Optional.empty if the stream is empty.
    - findAny() returns an Optional containing any element, or Optional.empty if the stream is empty.
    - max() min() average()
    - The version of reduce() that does not start with an identity object wraps its return value in an Optional.

- Demo : [OptionalsFromEmptyStreams.java](./Exercise/OptionalsFromEmptyStreams.java)
    [OptionalBasics.java](./Exercise/OptionalBasics.java)
    
- Note : when you first receive an Optional, you first discover whether there is anything inside by calling isPresent(). If there is, you fetch it using get().

#### Convenience Functions

- There are a number of convenience functions for unpacking Optionals, which simplify the above process of checking and doing something with the contained object.
    
    - ifPresent(Consumer) : Call the Comsumer with the value of it is there, otherwise do nothing.
    - orElse(otherObject) : Produce the object if it is there, otherwise produce otherObject.
    - orElseGet(Supplier) : Produce the object if it is there, otherwise produce a replacement object using the Supplier function.
    - orElseThrow(Supplier) : Produce the object if it is there, otherwise produce an exception using the Supplier function.
    
- Demo : [Optionals.java](./Exercise/Optionals.java)

### Creating Optionals

- When you are writing your own code that produces Optionals, there are three static methods you can use:
    - empty(): produces an Optional with nothing inside
    - of(value): If you alreaddy know that value is not null, use this to wrap it in an Optional.
    - ofNullable(value): Use this if you don't know that value is not null. It automatically produces Optional.empty() if value is null, and otherwise wraps value inside an Optional.

- Demo : [CreatingOptionals.java](./Exercise/CreatingOptionals.java)

### Operations on Optional Objects

- Three methods enable post-processing on Optionals, so if your stream pipeline produces an Optional you can do one more thing at the end:
    - filter(Predicate): Apply the Predicate to the contents of the Optional and return the result. If the Optional fails the Predicate, convert it to empty. If the Optional is already empty, _just pass it through_.

    - map(Function): If the Optional is not empty, apply Function to the contents of the Optional and return the result. Otherwise, pass through the Optional.empty.
    
    - flatMap(Function): Just like map(), but the supplied mapping function wraps the results in Optional objects so flatMap() doesn't do any wrapping at the end.
    
- Note:

- __None of these are available for the numeric Optionals.__
- __The normal stream filter() removes elements from the stream if the Predicate return false. Optional.filter() doesn't delete the Optional if the Predicate fails -- it leaves it, but converts it into empty().__
- Demo : [OptionalFilter.java]()

    




























