# Ch20

- A functional programming language manipulates pieces of code as easily as it manipulates data. Although Java is not a functional language, Java 8 _Lambda Expressions_ and _Method References_ allow you to program in a function style.

- Functional programming (FP)
    Instead of writing lost of code from scratch, you start with existing small pieces that are understandable, well-tested, and reliable. Then compose them together to create new code. Wouldn't that make us more productive and at the time create more robust code ?

- You can also think of it in this way:
> OO abstracts data, FP abstracts behavior.

- A pure _functional_ language goes further in its endeavor for __safety__. It imposes the additional constrain that all data must be _immutable_ : set once and never changed. Values are handed to a function which then produces new values but never modifies anything external to itself(including its arguments or elements outside of that function's scope). When this is enforced, you know that any bugs are not caused by so-called _side effects_, because the function only creates and returns a result, nothing else.

- Even better, the "immutable objects and no side effects" paradigm solves one of the most fundamental and vexing problems in parallel programming (when parts of program are running simultaneously on multiple processors). This is the problem of _mutable shared state_, which means different parts of your code can try to modify the same piece of memory at the same time (Who wins? Nobody knows). Besides, if functions never modify existing values but only produce new values - the definition of a pure functional language - there can be contention over memory. Thus, pure functional languages are often put forward as the solution to parallel programming.

- Be aware, then, that there are numerous motivations behind functional languages, which means describing them can be somewhat confusing. It often depends on perspective. And the reasons span:
    - it's for parallel programming
    - code reliability 
    - code creation and library reuse
- Also remember the argument of FP that programmers will create more robust code faster- are partly hypothetical. We have seen some good results but we haven't proved that a pure functional language is the best approach to solving the programming problem.

- In a word, ideas from FP are worth incorporating into non-FP language.


## 20.1 Old vs. New (TO pass the behavior)

- __Ordinarily, methods produce different results depending on the data we pass. What if you want a method to behave different from one call to the next ? If we pass code to the method, we can control its behavior.__

- Previously, we've done this by creating an object containing the desired behavior inside a method, then passing that object to the method we want to control.

- Demo : [Strategize.java](./Exercise/Strategize.java)
- Note: 
    Prior to Java 8, we _have_ been able to pass functionality via interface and anonymous inner class. However, the syntax has been so awkward to write and read that we've only done it when forced. Method references and lambda expressions make it possible to pass behavior, rather than only passing data.

## 20.2 Lambda Expressions

- _Lambda Expressions_ are function definitions written using minimum syntax:
    - 1. Lambda expressions produce functions, not classes. On the JVM, everything is a class, so there are various manipulations performed behind the scenes that make lambdas look like functions - but as a programmer, you can happily pretend they are _"just functions"_
    - 2. The lambda syntax is as spare as possible, precisely to make lambdas easy to write and use. (So there are many syntax variations.)

- Demo : [LambdaExpressions.java](./Exercise/LambdaExpressions.java)

- Note:
    We set three interfaces with _one single method_ and use lambda expressions to implement them by different number of arguments. The basic syntax of lambda expressions is :
    - 1.Parentheses around the arguments.(single argument can be ignored)
    - 2.Followed by the ->, which you might choose to read as "produces".
    - 3.Everything after the -> is the method body.
    - 4.If there is only one line in the method body, the result of that expression automatically becomes the return value and abbreviate the syntax 'return'.
    - 5.If you do need multiple lines in lambda expression, you must put them inside curly braces and add syntax return.
    
### Recursion

- A recursive function is one that calls itself. It is possible to write recursive lambda expressions, with a caveat: The recursive method must be an instance variable or a __static__ variable, otherwise you will get a compiler-time error.

- Demo : RecursiveFactorial.java
         RecursiveFibonacci.java

## 20.3 Method References

- _Method References_ refer to methods without the extra baggage required by previous of Java. A method reference is a class name or an object name, followed by a ::, then the name of the method.

- Demo : [MethodReferences.java](./Exercise/MethodReferences.java)

- When to use it ?
    - (1) When we use lamdba expressions, if the lambda expression implementation body only calls an externally existing method.


### Runnable

- In _Runnable_ interface , its method run() takes no arguments and no return value. We can use a lambda expression and method reference as a Runnable.

- Demo : RunnableMethodReference.java

### 20.3.1 UnboundMethodReference

- An _unbound method reference_ refers to an ordinary (non-static) method, without an associated object. To apply an unbound reference, you must supply the object.

- Demo : [UnboundMethodReference.java](./Exercise/UnboundMethodReference.java)
- Note :  

So far, we've seen references to method that have the same signature as their associated interface. At \[1], we try to do the same thing but produces an error "invalid method reference". THe problem is that there is actually another (hidden) argument involved: our old friend __this__. We can't call f() without an X object. Thus, X::f represents an unbound reference, because it hasn't been _bound_ to an object.  

To solve the problem we need an X object, so our interface actually needs an extra argument as you can see in TransformX. If you assign X::f to a TransformX, Java is happy.  

Now we must make a second mental adjustment with an unbound reference, the signature of the _functional method_ (the single method in the interface) no longer quite matches the signature of the method reference. There is a good reason, which is that you need an object to call the method on.  

The result at \[2] is a bit of a brain-teaser. I take the unbound reference and call transform() on it, passing it an X, and somehow that results in the call to x.f()  

- If your method has more arguments, just follow the pattern of the first argument taking __this__
- Demo : [MultiUnbound.java](./Exercise/MultiUnbound.java)

### 20.3.2 Constructor Method References

- You can also capture a reference for a constructor, and later call that constructor via the reference.
- Demo : [CtorReference.java](./Exercise/CtorReference.java)

## 20.4 Functional Interface

- Both method references and lambda expressions must be assigned, and those assignations require type information for the compiler to ensure type correctness of the accepted and returned value.

```java
    x -> x.toString();
    (x, y) -> x + y;
    System.out::print;
```

- To solve the problem, J8 introduces __java.util.function__ containing a set of interfaces which are target types for lambda expressions and method references. Each interface contains only one abstract method, called _[functional method](!https://www.cnblogs.com/linzhanfly/p/9686941.html)_.

- This "functional method" pattern can be enforced by using the @FunctionalInterface annotation when writing interfaces.

- Demo : [FunctionalAnnotation.java](./Exercise/FunctionalAnnotation.java)

- Note : 
    This is a bit of magic that if you assign a method reference or a lambda expression to a functional interface, Java will adapt your assignment to the target interface. Under the covers, the compiler wraps your implements the target interface.  
    Even though FunctionalAnnotation does fit the Functional model, but Java won't let it done since it doesn't explicitly implement Functional.
    

### java.util.function

- many words, but not know how to say it

|functionl interface|presentation|
|---|---|
|  Consumer  |  args T, return void  |
|  Supplier  |  args null, return T  |
|  Function  |  args T, return R  |
|  Predicate  |  args T, return bool  |

|  UnaryOperator  |  args T, return T  |
|  BinaryOperator  |  args T, T, return T  |

- To deal with primitive, the number of function interfaces is kinds of explosive.
- Pattern : \[ATo]B[]
    - A : argument
    - B : return value
    - [] : Consumer / Function / Supplier / Operator / Predicate

- Note : __It is noticed that functional interface determines which method (or interface) to match only by the arguments and return type, the name doesn't matter.__
So java performs a mapping of your method name onto the functional method of interface. To invoke your method, you can just call the functional method name (accept()) not your method name.
- Demo : [MethodConversion.java](./Exercise/MethodConversion.java)

- Note that each method name is arbitrary, but once the method reference is assigned to a functional interface, you can call the functional method associated with interface. (get(), compare(), accept(), apply(), test())


### Functional Interfaces with more Arguments

- The interfaces in java.util.function are limited. There is a BiFunction but it stops there. What if we need an interface for three-argument functions? Those interfaces are straightforward, so it's easy to look at the library source code and __make our own__.

- Demo : [TriFunctionTest.java](./Exercise/TriFunctionTest.java)

### Higher Order Functions

- A higher-order function is simply a function that consumes or produces functions.

- Demo : [ProduceFunction.java](./Exercise/ProduceFunction.java)
- Note : produce() is a higher-order function.
    - 1.Using inheritance, you can easily create an alias for a specialized interface.
    - 2. With lambda expressions, it becomes effortless to create and return a function from within a method.
    
- To consume a function, the consuming method must type correctly in its argument list.
- Demo : [ConsumeFunction.java](./Exercise/ConsumeFunction.java)

- Things get particularly interesting when you produce a new function based on the consumed function.
- Demo : [TransformFunction.java](./Exercise/TransformFunction.java)

- Note: This uses a __default__ method in the __Function__ interface called __andThen()__ which is specifically designed for manipulating functions. As the name implies, andThen() is invoked _after_ the __in__ function is called (there's also __compose()__ which applies the new function before the __in__ function).  
 To attach an andThen() function, we simply pass that function as an argument. What comes out of transform() is a new function, which combines the action of __in__ with that of the andThen() argument.
 
 ## 20.5 Closures
 
- We can return a lambda function from a method, but there are some issues we must explore about returning lambda (function). These issues are summarized bu the term _closure_. Closures are important because they make it easy to produce functions.

- Consider a more complex lambda, one that uses variables outside its function scope. What happens when you return the function? That is, what does it reference for those "outside" variables when you call the function? It becomes quite challenging if the language doesn't automatically handle this problem. Language that do solve it are said to support closures, or to be _lexically scoped_ (that term _variable capture_ is also used). J8 provides limited, but reasonable, closure support, which we will examine using some simple examples.

- First, here is a method to return a function that accesses an object field and a method argument
- Demo : [Closure1.java](./Exercise/Closure1.java)

- Upon reflection this use of i isn't that big of a challenge because the object is likely to exist after you call makeFun() --the garbage collector almost certainly preserves an object with extant functions(anonymous inner class) tied back to it.  
However, if you call makeFun() multiple times for the same object, you will end up with several functions all sharing the sam storage for __i__.

- Demo : [SharedStorage.java](./Exercise/SharedStorage.java)

- What if __i__ is local to makeFun()? Under normal circumstances, __i__ is gone when makeFun() completes. It still compiles, however.
- Demo : Closure2.java

- The IntSupplier returned by makeFun() closes over i and x, thus both are still valid util you invoke the returned function. 
- Notice, we cannot increment i or x in Closure2.java, or we will get a compile-error.
> Variable used in lambda expression should be final or effectively final

```java
import java.util.function.IntSupplier;
public class Closure3 {
    IntSupplier makeFun(int x) {
        int i;
        // Neither x++ or i++ will work
        return () -> (x++) + (i++);
    }
}
```
- Clearly, if we make x and i final it will work, because we cannot increment them.
- Demo : Closure4.java

- If x and i are changed elsewhere in the method, the compiler still considers it an error. Each increment produces a separate error message.

```java
import java.util.function.IntSupplier;
public class Closure5 {
    IntSupplier makeFun(int x) {
        int i;
        x++;
        i++;
        // Neither x++ or i++ will work
        return () -> x + i;
    }
}
```

- So _effectively final_ means you could apply the final keyword to the variable declaration without changing any of the rest of the code. It is actually final, you just haven't bothered to say so.

- We can actually fix the issue in Closure5.java by assigning x and i to final variables before using them in the closure.

- Demo : [Closure6.java](./Exercise/Closure6.java)

- Since you never change iFinal and xFinal after assignment, the use of final here is _redundant_.

- However, what if you are using reference, we can change from int to Integer.

```java
import java.util.function.IntSupplier;
public class Closure7 {
    IntSupplier makeFun(int x) {
        Integer i = 0;
        // cannot compile!
        i = i + 1;
        return () -> (x++) + (i++);
    }
}
```
- The compiler is smart enough to see that i is being changed.

- Demo : [Closure8.java](./Exercise/Closure8.java)

- This time it works: we modify the contents of the List without producing a compile-time error. Besides, it does seem pretty safe, because each time makeFun() is called, a brand new ArrayList is created and returned -- which means it is not shared, so each generated closure has its own separate ArrayList and they can't interfere with each other.

- And notice "final List<Integer> list" can be final, but you can just take it off and get the same result. The __final__ keyword applied to object references only says that the reference can't be reassigned. It doesn't say you can't modify the object itself.

```java
public class Closure9 {
    Supplier<List<Integer>> makeFun() {
        List<Integer> at = new ArrayList<>();
        
        // Reassignment
        at = new ArrayList<>();
        return () -> at;
    }
}
```

- The reassignment does indeed trigger the error message. If you only modify the object that's point to, J accept it. (Because there are the separated objects produced by the same Function, but when you reassign the reference, that means you have more than one entity that can modify one object. That would be confusing.)

- Note that you cannot say "any variable defined outside the lambda must be final or effectively final". Instead, you  must think in terms of _captured variables_ being effectively final. If it is a field with independent lifetime, belonging to an object or doesn't need any special capturing in order to exist later, when the lambda expression is called.

### Inner Classes as Closures

- In J8, Closures = Inner Classes.
- In J8, explicitly final --> effectively final.
- Demo : [AnonymousClosure.java](./Exercise/AnonymousClosure.java)

##20.6 Function Composition

- _Function Composition_ basically means "pasting functions together to create new functions", and it's commonly considered a part of functional programming. You saw one example of _TransformFunction.java_ with andThen().

- Demo : [FunctionComposition.java](./Exercise/FunctionComposition.java)
    [PredicateComposition.java](./Exercise/PredicateComposition.java)
    

## Currying and Partial Evaluation

- Currying means starting with a function that takes multiple arguments and turning it into a sequence of functions, each of which only takes a single argument.

- Demo : [CurryingAndPartial.java](./Exercise/CurryingAndPartial.java)

- Note:
    - 1. This is a tricky line : a cascade of arrows. And notice how, in the function interface declaration, Function has another Function as its second argument.
    - 2. The goal of currying is to be able to create a new function by providing a single argument (Partial), so you now have an "argument function" and a remaining "free argument". In effect, you start with a two- argument function and end wtih one-argument function.

- Practice : [Curry3Args.java](./Exercise/Curry3Args.java)

- When dealing with primitives and boxing, use the appropriate functional interfaces.
- Demo : [CurriedIntAdd.java](./Exercise/CurriedIntAdd.java)

## Sum

- Lambda expressions and method references do not turn Java into a functional language, but rather provide support for programming in a more functional style. And it enables _streams_. 
- They are far from perfect, however -- we have to pay the price of the rash decisions(field must be final in lambda expression).  
 In particular, there is no generic lambda. 
