# Ch19

- Annotations (also known as _metadata_) provide a formalized way to add information to your code so that you can easily use that data at some later point.

- Annotations are partly motivated by the trend toward combining metadata with source-code files, instead of keeping it in external documents.

- Annotations are one of the fundamental language changes introduced in JSE5. They provide information that you need to fully describe your program, but that cannot be expressed in J. 
- Thus, annotations allow you to store extra information about your program in a format that is tested and verified by the compiler. Annotations can be used to generate descriptor files or even new class definitions and help ease the burden of writing template code.
- Using annotations, you can have the advantages:
    - cleaner looking codes
    - compiler-time type checking
    - annotation API to help build processing tools for your annotations
    
- Usage: Anytime you create descriptor classes or interfaces that involve repetitive work, you can use annotations to automate and simplify the process.

## 1.1 Basic syntax

- Annotated methods are no different from other methods. Syntactically, annotations can be used in much the same way as modifiers like __public__ or __static__ or __void__.

- In the example below, the method is annotated with @Test. This doesn't do anything by itself, but the compiler will ensure that you have a definition for it in your build path.

- Demo : Testable.java

### Defining annotations

```java
package net.mindview.atunit;
import java.lang.annotation.*;

@Target(ElementType.METHOD)
@Retention(RetentionPolicy.RUNTIME) 
public @interface Test {} 
```

- The annotation definitions look like _interface definitions_. In fact, they compile to class files like any other Java interface.

- Annotations definition also requires the __meta-annotations__.
    - @Target defines where you can apply this annotation (field or method ...)
    - @Retention defines whether the annotations are available  in the source code(__SOURCE__), in the class files(__CLASS__) or at the run time(__RUNTIME__)

- Annotations will usually contain elements to specify values in your annotations. A program or tool can use these parameters when processing your annotations. Elements look like interface methods, except that you can declare default values.

- Demo : [UseCase.java](./Exercise/UseCase.java)

- Notice that id and description resemble method declarations. 

- Since id is type-checked by the compiler, it is a reliable way of linking a tracking database to the use case document and the source code.

- Example case : [PasswordUtils.java](./Exercise/PasswordUtils.java)

- The annotation for encryption is not passed a value for the description element here, so the default value defined in the @interface UseCase will appear when the class is ran through an annotation processor.

### Meta-annotations (4)

- @Target: Where the annotation can be applied. ElementType arguments (CONSTRUCTOR | FIELD | LOCAL_VARIABLE | METHOD | PACKAGE | PARAMETER | TYPE(class\interface\enum))

- @Retention: How long the annotation information is kept. The possible RetentionPolicy arguments are: (SOURCE | CLASS | RUNTIME)

- @Documented : Include this annotation in the Javadoc.

- @Inherited : Allow subclasses to inherit parent annotations.

- Note: Most of the time, you will be defining your own annotations and writing your own processors to deal with them.

## Writing annotation processors

- Without tools to read them, annotations are hardly more useful than comments. An important part of the process of using annotations is to create and use __annotation processors__. JSE5 provides extensions to the reflection API to help you create these tools. It also provides ena external tool called _apt_ to help you parse source code with annotations.

- Here is a very simple annotation processor that reads the annotated PasswordUtils class and uses reflection to look for @UseCase tags. Given a list of id values, it lists the use cases it finds and reports any that are missing.

- Demo : [UseCaseTracer.java](./Exercise/UseCaseTracer.java)

### Annotation elements

- Here is the list of the allowed types for annotation elements:
    - All primitives (int double boolean etc)
    - String
    - Class
    - Enums
    - Annotations (very useful)
    - Arrays of any type of the above
- Note that you are no allowed to use any of the wrapped classes, but because of autoboxing this isn't really a limitation.

### Default value constraints (important)

- No element can have an unspecified value.
 This means that elements must either have default values or provided by the class that uses the annotation.
 
- And there is another restriction, which is that none of the non-primitive type elements are allowed to take __null__ as a value. This makes it hard to write a processor that acts on the presence or absence of an element, because every element is effetively present in annotation declararion. You can get around by checking for specific values, like empty string or negative values.

- Demo : [SimulatingNull.java](./Exercise/SimulatingNull.java)

- This is a typical idiom in annotation definition.

## Generating external files

- Annotations are especially useful when working with frameworks that require some sort of additional information to accompany your source code. 
 Web services, custom tag libraries and object/relational mapping tools like Hibernate often require XML descriptors that are external to the code. Whenever you use an external descriptor file, you end up with two separate sources of information about one class, which usually leads to code synchronization problems.
 
 Suppose you want to provide basic object/relational mapping functionality to automate the creation of a database table in order to store a Java bean. You could use an XML descriptor file to specify the name of the class., each member and information about database mapping.  
 However, using annotations you can keep all information in the source file. To do this, you need annotations to define the name of database table associated with the bean, the columns and the SQL types to map to the bean's properties.
 
- Demo : [DBTable.java](./database/DBTable.java)

- Note
    - @Target: You can specify a single value of the enum ElementType, or you can specify a comma-separated list of any combination of values. If you want to apply the annotation to any ElementType, you can leave out the @Target annotation altogether(uncommon).

- Note that the default value for the constraints() element is actually an @Constraints annotation with its own default values set. To make a nested @Constraints annotation with uniqueness set to true by default, you can define its element like this:
- Demo : [Uniqueness.java](./database/Uniqueness.java)

- If you define an element on an annotation with the name value, then as long as it is the only element type specified you don’t need to use the name-value pair syntax; but if you need to be a primary key on the database, so the element type primaryKey must be set on the nested @Constraint annotation. The result is not pretty.

#### Alternative solutions

- There are other ways of creating annotations for this task.

- 1. You could have a single annotation class called @TableColumn with an enum element which defines values like STRING, INTEGER, FLOAT, etc. This eliminates the need for an @interface for each SQL type, but makes it impossible to qualify your type with additional element like _size, etc_.
- 2. You could also use a way of String element to describe the actual SQL type, e.g., "VARCHAR(30)" or "INTEGER". This does allow you to qualify the types, but it ties up the mapping from string to SQL type. (You have to recompile classes when you change databases.)
- 3. A third workable solution is to use two annotation types together, @Constraints and the relevant SQL type (@SQLInteger), to annotate the desire field. This is slightly messy but the compiler allows as many different annotations as you like. Note that when using multiple annotations, you cannot use the same annotation twice.

## Annotations don't support inheritance

- You cannot use the extends keyword with @interfaces. This is a pity, because an elegant solution would have been to define an annotation @TableColumn, as suggested above, 
  with a nested annotation of type @SQLType. That way, you could inherit all your SQL types, 
  like @SQLInteger and @SQLString, from @SQLType. This would reduce typing and 
  neaten the syntax. There doesn’t seem to be any suggestion of annotations supporting 
  inheritance in future releases, so the examples above seem to be the best you can do under the circumstances. 
  
## Implementing the processor

- Here is an example of an annotation processor which reads in a class file, checks for its database annotations and generates the SQL command for making the database:
- Demo : [TableCreator.java](./database/TableCreator.java)


## Using apt to process annotations (Decorated)

- The _annotation processing tool_(apt) is designed to be run on _source files_ rather than compiled classes. By default, apt compiles the source files when it has finished processing them. This is useful if you are automatically creating new source files. In fact, apt checks newly created source files for annotations and compiles them all in the same pass. It will continue round after round of processing until no more source files are being created. It _then_ compiles all source files.

- Each annotation you write will need its own processor, but the apt can easily group several annotation processors together. It allows you to specify multiple classes to be processed, which is a lot easier than having to iterate through class files. You can also add listeners to receive notification of when an annotation processing round is complete.

- __apt__ works by using an _AnnotationProcessorFactory_ to create the right kind of annotation processor for each annotation it finds. When you run apt, you specify either a factory class or a classpath where it can find the factories. 

- Note that when you create an annotation processor for use with apt, you cannot use the reflection features because you are working with source code, not compiled classes.  
 However, the mirror API solves the problem by allowing you to view methods, fields and types in uncompiled source code.

- Demo : Here is a class that can extract the public methods from a class and turn them into an interface.
  [ExtractInterface.java](./Exercise/ExtractInterface.java)
  
  InterfaceExtractorProcessor
  
  
  
- Notice that an AnnotationProcessorEnvironment object is passed into the constructor. 
    1. You can query this object for all of the types (class definitions) that the _apt_ tool is processing, 
    2. You can use it to get a __Messager__ object and a Filer object. 
    - The Messager enables you to report messages to the user, e.g., any errors that might have occurred with the processing and where they are in the source code. 
    - The Filer is a kind of PrintWriter through which you will create new files. The main reason that you use a Filer object, rather than a plain PrintWriter, is that it allows apt to keep track of any new files that you create, so it can check them for annotations and compile them if it needs to.

- process( ) is called by the apt tool, which needs a factory to provide the right processor.
- Demo : InterfaceExtractorProcessorFactory.java

{Exec: apt -factory annotations.InterfaceExtractorProcessorFactory Multiplier.java -s ../annotations}


## Using visitor pattern with apt

- A visitor traverses a data structure or a collection of objects, performing an operation on each one. The data structure need not be ordered, and the operation that you perform on each object will be specific to its type. This decouples the operations from the objects themselves, meaning that you can add new operations without adding new methods to class definitions. 
- This makes it useful for processing annotations, because a class can be thought of as a collection of objects such as TypeDeclarations, FieldDeclarations, MethodDeclarations, and so on. When you use the apt tool with the Visitor pattern, you provide a Visitor class which has a method for handling each type of declaration that you visit. Thus you can implement appropriate behavior for annotations on methods, classes, fields and so on. 

- De: Visitor

## Annotation based unit testing

- __Unit testing__ is the practice of creating one or two test the portion of a class for correct behavior. 

- The most popular tool used for unit testing is called _JUnit_. at the time of this writing, JUnit was in the process of being updated to JUnit version 4, in order to incorporate annotations. One of the main problems with pre-annotation versions of JUnit is the amount of "ceremony" necessary in order to set up and run JUnit tests. This has been reduced over time, but annotations will move testing closer to "the simplest unit testing system that can possibly work." 

- In the pre-annotation versions of JUnit, you must create a seperate class to hold your unit tests. With annotations, we can include the unit test inside the class to be tested, and thus reduce the time and trouble of unit testing to a minimum. This approach has the additional benefit of being able to test private methods as easily as public ones.

- One option for the test methods is to take no arguments and return a boolean to indicate success or failure.

- Demo : AtUnitExample.

- You’re not forced to embed test methods inside your classes, if that doesn’t work for you. The easiest way to create non-embedded tests is with inheritance.

- Demo : AtUnitExternalTest.java


- You can also use composition to create non-embedded tests.

- Demo : AtUnitComposition

- Test for failings : assert

    - To test for success, you can use assert statement. 
    - To test for failing, you use an exception or assert to report error since JUnit don't want to involved new syntax.
	- A failed test (assert or exception) that emerges from the test method is treated as failed, but JUnit does not halt in this case -- it continues until all tests are run.
    
- Demo : AtUnitExample02.java

- Here is an example using non-embedded tests with assertions, performing some simple tests of _HashSet_.

- Demo : HashSetTest.java

- The inheritance approach would seem to be simpler, in the absence of other constraints. 


- For each unit test, @Unit creates an object of the class under test using of default constructor. The test is called for that object, and then the objects discarded to prevent side effects from leaking into other unit tests. This relies on the default constructor to create the objects. If you don't have a default constructor or you need more sophisticated construction for objects, you create a static method to build the object and attach @TestObjectCreate annotation.

- Demo : AtUnitExample03.java


- Sometimes you need additional fields to support your unit testings. The _@TestProperty_ annotation can be used to tag fields that are only used for unit testing (so that they can be removed before you deliver the product to the client).

- Demo : [AtUnitExample04.java]


- If your test object creation performs initialization that requires later cleanup, you can add a static _@TestObjectCleanup_ method to perform cleanup when you are finished with the test object.

- Demo : AtUnitExample05.java (file.close())

## Using @Unit with Generics

- Generics pose a special problem, because you cannot test generically. You must test for a specific type parameter or set of parameters. The solution is simple: Inherit a test class from a specified of the generic class.

- Demo : StackLStringTest.java

- Note : The only potential drawback to inheritance is that you lose the ability to access _private_ methods in the class under test. If this is a problem, you can either make the method _protected_, or add a non-private @TestProperty method that calls the private method.


- TODO
    - AtUnit.java
    - ObjectCreate.java
    - ClassNameFinder.java
    
















## Summary

- Annotations are a welcome addition to Java. They are structured and typechecked means of adding metadata to your code without rendering it unreadable and messy. They can help remove the tedium of writing deployment descriptors and other generated files. 

- Only a small handful processor tools of annotations come with JSE5. So we need to use some useful tools. With the apt tools, you can compile newly generated files in one step, easing the build process, but currently there is little more in the mirror API than some basic functionality to help you identify the elements of class definition in source code. As you see, Javassist can be used for bytecode engineering, or you can hand-code your own bytecode manipulation tools.

- This situation will certainly improve, and providers of APIs and frameworks will start providing annotations as part of their toolkits. As you can imagine by seeing the @Unit system, it is likely that annotations will cause significant changes in our J programming experience.



- APT is replaced with a better one JSR 269 API - "Pluggable Annotation Processing API".


















