# Inner Classes

- It is possible to  place a class definition within another class.

- Feature
  
  - To group the classes that logically belong together (Design)
  - To control the visibility of one class whtin another (Mechamism)

- Inner classes vs. Composition

  - IC have ability of code-hiding, addtionally it can communicate with outer class.

## 1.Creating Inner classes

- (1) Writing a class inside another class (Parcel1.java)
- (2) An outer class can return a reference to the inner class  
    _Mostly we use a __method__ to return the reference in outer class_(Pacel.java)
- (3) But when you get the reference of Inner classes, you have to use      __OuterClassName.InnerclassName__ to receive.

## 2.The link to the outer class

- _Importantly, The object of inner class auto has a reference of outer class, so inner class can access all element in outer class. (Sequnce.java)

## 3.Using .this and .new

- __OuterClassName.this__ : the reference of outer class (CompileTime)
- __OuterObjectName.new__ : the reference of inner class (RunTime)
- Demo : DotThis.java / DotNew.java

## 4.Inner class and Upcasting

- Inner classes come their omn when you start upcasting to a base class, particularly interface.
- This is because (private) inner class can be unseen, which is convinent for code-hiding. All the method returning is __a reference of base class__.

## 5.Inner classes in methods and scopes (Local inner classs)

- Two Uses for this
  - (1) When you implement an interface to return a reference
  - (2) You want to create a class but you don't want it publicly available.

- demo : Parcel4.java
- __Note__ :  
  - (1) Although inner class is nested inside a scope, the class is not conditionally created. It gets compiled with other classes normally.
  - (2) But it still not available outside the scope.

## 6.Annonymous class

- Demo : Parcel7.java
- __Note__ :  
  - (1) Creating an object of anonymous class that is inherited from Content.
  - (2) In anonymous class, Content is created by __default constructor__.
  - (3) When you need a constructor with args. (Demo : Parcel8.java)
  - (4) If want to use the objects that defined outside the anonymous       class, the compiler requires the reference is _efficiently final_.
  - (5) When you want to perform some constructor-like activity, since      we cannot have a named constructor in anonymous class so we use       instance initialization. ( AnonymousConstructor.java )
      (Instance initialization is better than field initializer but still cannot overload.)

## 7.Nested class

- If you don't a connection between inner and outer class, 
  then _static_ + inner class = nested class.
- Demo : Parcel9.java
- __Note__ : 
  - (1) You don't need a object of outer class to create an object of inner class
  - (2) At the same time, you cannot access a non-static outer class from object of nested class.
- Difference with ordinary class (_important_)
  - ordinary class cannot have static data, static method and nested class.
  - This is because static member are usually initialized when program starts, while an inner class's initialization depends on enclosing class.

## 8.Nested Classes inside interface

- Nested class can be involved into interface.
- And all elements in interface should auto be public and static

- Demo : ClassInInterface.java
- Note : It is convenient to nest a class into interface when you want to create some common code to be used in all implemntation.
- We suggest put a main() into every class to act a test bed. But this way will lead to extra compiler code, So using a nested class can solve the problem.

## 9.Why inner class? (improtant)

- 1.Typically, we use inner class implementing interface or extending a based class, and inner class can manipulate _object_ of outer class.
- 2.However, how to distuiguish an inner class implementing an interface from an outer class implementing an interface.
- 3.The question is that you cannot always have the convienent of interface, you need to deal with multi-implementation.
- 4.So one way to look at the inner class is as the rest of the solution of the multiple-inheritance problem.
- 5.Interfaces solve part of the problem, but inner classes effectively allow "multiple implementation inheritance."
- 6.In one word, inner classes effectively allow you to inherit from more than one non-interface.

- Demo : MultiInterface.java

## 10.Inheriting from inner class

- Problem : The inner class constructor _must_ have a reference of outer class. When inner class is inherited, the reference is lost.
- To give a reference, we use the followed in derived class' constructor
        __EnclosingClassReference.super()__

## Can inner class be overridden?



