## Polymorphism

- Polymorphism provides another dimension of separation of 
    interface from implementation, to decouple _what_ from _how_. 
- Polymorphism allows improved code organization and readability as well as
    the creation of extensible programs (new feature)
- Polymorphism deals with decoupling in terms of types instead of methods.
- The polymorphic method call allows one type to express
its distinction from another, similar type, as long as they’re both derived from the same base
type. This distinction is expressed through differences in behavior of the methods that you
can call through the base class. 

- revise the upcasting
    - demo1 : music
    - forget the type and use override
    - demo2 : music2
    
- Issue : how can the compiler know the Instrument reference 
            pointing to which derived class?

- Method call binding 
    - binding : Connect the methodcall to method body
    - _late binding_ : performed by compiler and linker
    - _early binding_ : performed in the run time
    - All methods in J use late binding unless they 
         are _static_ and _final_(private is implicitly final)
    - demo:shape
    
- Extensibility
    - Polymorphism separates the change things from the stay things

- Pitfall(1):overriding "private" methods 
    - demo: PrivateOverride
    - private method is  implicitly final, so the method f()
            in derived class is a brand new method.

- Pitfall(2):field and static methods
    - demo: FieldAccess
    - Only method calls can be polymorphic, the access of field is
        determined in compiler time
    - demo: StaticPolymorphic
    - static methods are associated with the class, not the individual objects
    
## Constructors and polymorphism
- Constructors are implicitly static, so they cannot be polymorphic
- The actual process of initialization (important)
    - (1) Default initializer
    - (2) Static block
    - (3) Based class constructor
    - (4) Override methods
    - (5) Special initializer
    - (6) Derived constructors
- demo : PolyConstructor / Beetle

## Covariant return types
- An overridden method in a derived class can return a type 
    derived from the type returned by the based-class method.
- demo : CovariantReturn

## Designing with Inheritance
- Composition vs. Inheritance
- A better approach is to choose composition first, 
  especially when it’s not obvious which one you should use. 
  Composition does not force a design into an inheritance hierarchy. 
  And composition is also more flexible 
  since it’s possible to dynamically choose a type (and thus behavior)
  when using composition, 
  whereas inheritance requires an exact type to be known
  at compile time.
  
- Substitution vs. Extension
    - 'is a' sce : pure inheritance
    - 'is like a' : add some new when inheriting

- Downcasting and runtime type identification (RTTI)
    -  there must be some way to guarantee that a downcast is correct
