## Ch04

- As the computer revolution progresses, _unsafe_ programming has
    become one of the major culprits that makes it expensive.

1.Initialization & Clean Up
- many C bugs occurred when programmers forget to initialize the obj
- the obj that programmers have done with are still retained
    and it will end up with running out of resource.

2.Constructor
- Name issue
    >- It may miss up names with other number functions in class
    >- Compiler is responsible to call constructor so it must 
        always know the name of constructors
    - solution : The name of constructor is the same as the class name

- auto-called when creating the objects

- has no return value ('new' return a reference)

- default constructor (IF you do not write a constructor, 
                         the compiler creates a de-constructor auto-ly)
- overloading constructors


3.Method overloading

- Issue
    >- The same word expressing many trivial different meanings
    >- The constructors

- Distinguish : unique list of arguments types (even order)

- confused by primitive promotion

- can not overloading on return value


4. _this_ keyword
- Issue
    - internal expression: obj.func(i) ---> class.func(obj,i)
    - Compiler can not know current object

- use for
    - (1) current object
    - (2) call this() in constructor
    - (3) this.i = i
    
- static    
    - when static, there is no 'this' in object.

5.GC
- Tips
    - _1. Your objects might not get garbage collected._
    
    - _2. Garbage collection is not destruction._
        - What it means is that if there is some activity that 
          must be performed before you no longer need an object, 
          you must perform that activity yourself. 
    
    - _3. Garbage collection is only about memory._
        - any activity that is associated with garbage collection, 
          most notably your finalize() method, 
          must also be only about memory and its deallocation. 

- finalize()
    - allocate storage in some way rather than creating an object (native method)
    - it will be called before the progress of garbage collection
    - another approach : TerminationCondition.j
    
- How the gc work (Storage release increases the speed of object object creation)
    - Method 1 : Reference Counting
    - Issue in 1 : Reference itself
    
    - Method 2 : 
        - Alive objects trace back to stack/static storage
        - Stop and Copy
    - Issue in 2 : waste resource when stable
        - Mark and Sweep
    
    - Method to speed up
        - JIT
        
        
- Order of Initialization
    - (1) loading Dog.class
    - (2) create _Class_ object and run static initialization
    - (3) allocate storage for Dog on the heap
    - (4) Default Initialization
    - (5) Special Initialization
    
        - non-static instance initialization
            -  but it also allows you to guarantee that certain operations 
               occur regardless of which explicit constructor is called.
    
    - (6) Constructor Initialization 
    
- Enumerated Types
    - static values()
    - ordinal()  return index