# Type Information

- Runtime type information (RTTI) allows you to discover and 
    use type information when a program is running.

- This chapter looks at the ways that Java allows you to discover 
  information about objects and classes at run time.
- It frees you from the constraint of doing type-oriented things 
  only at compile time, and can enable some very powerful programs. 
- The need for RTTI uncovers a plethora of 00 design issues, 
  and raises fundamental questions about how to structure your programs. 
- Two Forms
    - "traditional" RTTI : you have all the types available at compile time
    - Reflection mechanism : allows you to discover and use class information at run time.

## The need for RTTI

- The goal for OOP is to manipulate reference to the based type.

## The Class object

- Java perform RTTI using the Class object, which is used to create objects
    and contains all information about class, even if you are doing something like _cast_
- Class object is created when you write and compile a new class.
- JVM uses _class loader_ to load .class file and create objects.
- All classes are load dynamically when the program makes the first reference 
    to a __static__ member(constructor) of the class. (_important_)
- Thus, a Java program is partially loaded when necessary.(_dynamic loading_)
- Demo : SweetShop.java

- Anytime you want to use type information at run time, 
  you must first get a reference to the appropriate Class object.
    - without object : static forName(String className) --> Class
    - access object : object.getClass --> Class

### Class literals

- Java provides a second way to create the reference of __Class__ object.
- Class literal is checked at compile time.
- Class literals can work with interfaces, arrays and primitive types.
```
  Class c = String.class; // must ClassName.class
```
- A pic (TODO)
- _Note that creating a reference to a __Class__ object using ".class" 
    will not automatically initialize the __Class__ object._????
- There are three steps in preparing a class for use:
    - (1) _Loading_. which is performed by the class loader. 
         It finds the bytecodes and creates a Class object.
    - (2) _Linking_. The link phase verifies the bytecodes in the class, 
        allocates storage for static fields, and if necessary, 
        resolves all references to other classes made by this class.
    - (3) _Initialization_. If there’s a superclass, initialize that. 
        Execute static initializers and static initialization blocks.
- __Note:__ Initialization is delayed until the first reference to a static method 
        (the constructor is implicitly static) or to a non-constant static field.

- Demo : ClassInitialization.java

### Generic class references

- A Class reference points to a __Class__ object, which contains all methods code 
  and statics for the class and manufactures instances of classes.
- However, we can use generic syntax to constrain the type of _Class_ object.
- We use a _wild_ symbol to loosen the constraints,  
  and use a _? extends Type_ to create a Class reference constrained to 
    a type or any subtype.

- Demo : GenericClassReference.java

- Note: 
    > Class<Number> genericNumberClass = int.class;  
    This doesn’t work, because Integer is inherited from Number,
    but the Integer Class object is not a subclass of the Number Class object.

- When you use the generic syntax for Class objects: newlnstance() 
  will return the exact type of the object, rather than just a basic Object.
- Demo : FilledList.java / ToyTest.java

### New cast syntax(*)

- Demo : ClassCasts.java

## Checking before a cast

- Java, because of RTTI, can check type when it occurs casting (both up and down) 
    so we often called it type-safe.
- Upcast : The compiler knows the based class of a class auto, 
   so the compiler freely allows an upcast assignment, without requiring any explicit cast syntax.
- Downcast : The compiler cannot know which derived class of a class you want.
   Thus, it won’t allow you to perform a downcast assignment without using an explicit cast.  
    The compiler will check to see if that downcast is reasonable, 
    so it won’t let you downcast to a type that’s not actually a subclass.

- There’s a third form of RTTI in Java : _instanceof_
- Demo : PetCreator / ForNameCreator / PetCount / LiteralPetCreator (important)

### A dynamic __instanceof__

- isInstance(Object) can replace the instanceof dynamically.
- Demo : PetCount3.java

## Registered factories

- Demo : RegisteredFactories.java

## instanceof vs. Class equivalence

- instanceof()
- isInstance()

- ClassA == ObjectA.getClass()
- ClassA.equals(ObjectA.getClass())

- instanceof checks whether the object is an instance of (class or derived class)
- Class objects == and equals() just compare the exact type despite the inheritance.

- Demo : FamilyVsExactType.java

## Reflection : runtime class information

- There is a limitation on RTTI : compiler must know all class information you are working with.
- Case : you get a bunch of bytes from a disk file or from a network connection, 
         and you’re told that those bytes represent a class. Since this class 
         shows up long after the compiler generates the code for your program, 
         how can you possibly use such a class?
- The motivation of reflection
    - 1. Reflection provides the mechanism to detect the available methods and provide the method name.
    - Beside, Java provides a structure for component-based programming through JavaBeans.
    - 2. Reflection provides the ability to create and execute objects on the remote platform.
    - This allows a Java program to have objects distributed across many machines.
- The convenience of Reflection
    - With Field, Method and Constructor class and their methods, the class information of
      anonymous objects can be completely determined at run time.
- The difference of Reflection and RTTI
    - RTTI : The compiler opens and examines the .class file at compile time.
    - Reflection : the .class file is unavailable at compile time; 
               it is opened and examined by the runtime environment through JVM.

### A class method extractor

- The usage of reflection
    - Reflection can be helpful when you want more dynamic code.
    - Reflection provides Java features like serialization and JavaBean.
- Demo : ShowMethods.java
    - You only get the methods in class definition though JSL.  
      But there are many methods in based class. To get them takes much time.
    - When the class is static, default constructor will be public available.
    - When the class is package access, default constructor will not be available.

## Dynamic Proxies

- A pattern design
- Demo : SimpleProxyDemo.java
- _Java’s dynamic proxy_
- Demo : SimpleDynamicProxies.java
        
## Null Objects
