# Enumerated Types

- The __enum__ keyword allows you to create a new type 
with a restricted set of named values, and to treat 
those values as regular program components.  
(Both the class constructure and the instances are in enum)

## 1. Basic enum features

- When you create an enum, an associated class is produced by compiler and 
  it is inherited automatically from java.lang.Enum.

- values() : return an array of constants in order of they declared
- ordinal() : return the declaration order of number
- == equals() hashcode() : enum creates hashcode() and equals() automatically.
- compare() : enum implements the Comparable and Serialization.

- Demo : EnumClass.java

### Using static import with enum

- It is a convienent way to create a static enum type instead of creating instance.
- Demo : Burrito.java

## 2.Adding methods to an enum

- Except you cannot inherit from an enum, you can treat enum as a regular class.
- So you can provide different description for each instance with a toString() method.
- Demo : OzWitch.java

- Note :
    - You’ll get a compile-time error if you try to define them after any of the methods or fields.
    - Compiler forbids you to use the constructor except for creating instances in enum
        (no matter whether it is a private or public).

## 3. enums in switch statements

- Demo : TrafficLight.java

## 4. The mystery of values()

- value() and valueOf(String) is added by the compiler automatically 
  when creating the enum instance.
- Demo : Reflection.java  (Because of erasure, compiler only knows Enum instead of Enum<?>)

```
// Compiled from "Reflection.java"
final class Explore extends java.lang.Enum{
    public static final Explore HERE;
    public static final Explore THERE;
    public static final Explore[] values();
    public static Explore valueOf(java.lang.String);
    static {};
}
```

- So you cannot call values() if you upcast to enum, but you can be access to
  them with getEnumConstances() in Class.
- If there is no constance in class, you will get a NullPointerException.
- Demo : UpcastEnum.java


## 5. Implement not extend

- Since enum cannot be extended and Java does not support multi-inheritance.
However, you can implement several interfaces.
- Demo : CartoonCharacter.java

## 6. Using interfaces for group

- The motivation for inheriting from an enum comes partly from 
    - wanting to extend the element in origin enum
    - wanting to create subcategories by using subtypes
- However, in practice you need to achieve categorization by grouping the elements
    together inside an interface and creating the enumeration based on the interface.
- If you want an enum of enums, you can create an enum with each instance for each enum.
- Demo : Food.java / TypeOfFood.java / Course.java 
- Promotion : There is a version that combine the above two kind into one tight way.
- Demo : SecurityCategory.java

## 7. Using EnumSet instead of flags

- Enum and Set both require that all its elements be unique.
- The EnumSet is created as a replacement for traditional int-based bit flag.
- The EnumSet is designed for speed (faster than  HashSet).
- It has a __long__ as a bit-vector (BitMap) ??
- Demo : EnumSets.java

## 8. Using EnumMap

- An EnumMap is a serialized Map that requires its key be from a single enum.
- In EnumMap, the order of elements is determined by the order of definition.

- Demo : EnumMaps.java (Command Pattern)

```
??? 
One advantage of EnumMap over constant-specific methods (described next) is that an EnumMap allows you to change the value objects, whereas you’ll see that constant-specific methods are fixed at compile time.
As you’ll see later in the chapter, EnumMaps can be used to perform multiple dispatching for situations where you have multiple types of enums interacting with each other.
```

## 9. Constance-specific methods

- Java enums have a very interesting feature that allows you to give 
  each enum instance different behavior by implementing abstract methods for each one.
- Demo : ConstantSpecificMethod.java
- Note : 
    - In object-oriented programming, different behavior is for different classes.
    - However, with specific method, each instance can have different behavior.
    - Enum instance is final and static so it cannot get non-static element like ordinary inner class.
    - constant-specific methods can be overridden. Demo : OverrideConstantMethod.java



## 10. Multiple dispatching

- 