# Strings

## Immutable Strings

- The objects of String is immutable.
- Every method modifying a String actually creates and returns a
    brand new String containing the modification. (important)
- Demo : Immutable.java
- __Note (important)__:  
When q is passed in to upcase()  
it’s actually __a copy of the reference to q__.  
The object this reference is connected to stays in 
__a single physical location__.  
The references are copied as they are passed around.

## StringBuilder vs. Overloading "+"

- Immutability has many efficiency issues.
    - You can alias to a String as many times as you want
    - No worry that one reference effect other reference

- A Demo for the benefit : Concatenation.java

- The difference of StringBuilder and Overloading '+'
    - Example : WhitherStringBuilder.java
    - Run 
    ```
        javap -c WhitherStringBuilder
    ```
    in the directory that contains .class files after compiling.
    - Overloading '+' implicitly creates a object of StringBuilder _every time_ called. 
    - So you will find the time point and quantity of StringBuilder's objects are different.

- After the comparision, the conclusion:
    - For simple ones, just use "+";
    - If a loop involved, you should use a StringBuilder explicitly.
    - Demo : UsingStringBuilder.java

## Unintended recursion 

- Demo : InfiniteRecursion.java
- When you call _this_ in toString(), this will call toString() automatically
  to convert itself into a String object. So finally you get a infinite recursion.
- To avoid this situation, you need to use super.toString() instead of this to 
    get the address of your object.

## Strings Operators

- A pic
- When the origin String changes, all methods create and return a new String object containing the modification.
- If no change happens, all methods just return the origin String.

## Formatting Output

- Java SE5 introduced format() and printf() method, 
    available to PrintStream or PrintWriter objects.
- Demo : SimpleFormat.java

### Formatter class

- java.util.Formatter
- A translator that converts your String and data into the desired result
- When you create objects of Formatter, you need to tell it where to show the format string
- Demo : Turtle.java

### Formatter conversions

- A pic
- Demo : 

### String.format()

- String.format() is a _static_ method which takes all the same arguments 
  as Formatter’s format() but only __returns a String not to display it__.
- Demo : DataException.java

### A hex dump tool

- Demo : net/mindview/util/Hex.java

## Regular expressions

- Regular expressions are powerful and flexible text-processing tools.
- Usage : Splitting / Replacement  (important)
- Demo:IntegerMatch.java / Splitting.java

### CharSequence

- The interface called CharSequence establishes a generalized definition 
    of a character sequence abstracted from the CharBuffer, String, 
    StringBuffer, or StringBuilder classes
- Many regular expression operations take CharSequence arguments.
```java
    interface CharSequence {
        charAt(int i);
        length();
        subSequence(int start, int end);
        toString();
    }
```

### Pattern and Matcher

> (1) import java.util.regex
  (2) Pattern p = Pattern.compile(regex);
  (3) Matcher m = p.matcher(text);
  (4) m.operators...

- start() / end()
- Demo : A easy tool ti test your regex : TestRegularExpression.java

- find() / group()
- Demo : Finding.java / Groups.java

- start() / end()
- Demo : 

- Pattern flags
- Demo : ReFlags.java

- split(CharSequence input)
- Demo : SplitDemo.java

- replace(String replacement)
- Demo : 


## Scanning input

- The usual solution is to read in a line of text, tokenize it, 
    then use the various parse methods of Integer, Double, etc., to parse the data
- Demo : SimpleRead.java
- Scanner class
- Demo : BetterRead.java

### Scanner delimiters

- By default, a Scanner splits input tokens along whitespace, 
but you can specify your own delimiter pattern with a regular expression.
- Demo : ScannerDelimiter.java

### Scanning with regular expressions


## StringTokenizer (not commend)

- Before regular expressions or Scanner class, the way to split a string into parts 
    was to "tokenize" it with StringTokenizer. 
  But now it’s a much easier and more succinct way to do the same thing.
- Demo : ReplacingStringTokenizer.java