# Error Handling with Exception

- The basic philosophy of Java is that _badly formed code will not be run_
- Two time to deal with error
    - Compiler-time : The ideal time to catch an error
    - Runtime : The originator of error passes the information to handle it
- Usage : Code robust
    - Error recovery is one of most powerful ways to increase the robust of code
    - _To create a robust system, each component need to be robust_
    - By providing a consistent error-reporting mode using exception,
        Java allows each component to report error to client code.
    
    - The goals for exception handling in Java are simplify  
            the creation of large,  
            reliable programs using less code than currently,  
            and to do sth with more confident that you do not have error.
- Target for learning
    - Write code that properly handle exception
    - To generate your own exception

## Concepts

- Exception
    - At the point where the problem occurs, you might not know what to do
        with it, but you do know you must stop and figure out what to do next.
        But you do not have enough information in the context to fix it. 
        So you hand the problem out to a higher context where someone is qualified 
        to handle this problem.
- Another benefit of 'exception' is that it tend to reduce the code of handle the
    complexity of error-handling code. 
    - Without exceptions, you have to check for error and deal with it in multiple places.
    - With exceptions, you no longer have to deal with it at the moment of method calling.  
        Since the exception will guarantee to be caught and be handled in _exception handles_.
- Exception Handle
    - It separates the code that describes what you want to do during normal execution
        and from the code that is executed when things go awry.

## Basic Concepts

- It’s important to distinguish an exception from a normal problem
   > Exception : A problem that prevents the continuation of current method
   > Normal problem: A problem that you have enough information to cope with

- Example : Division
    - zero : normal exception
    - other unexpected value : exception
    
- When you throw an exception
    - (1) The exception object is created on the heap with new
    - (2) The execution stopped and the obj is ejected from the context
    - (3) Exception handle mechanism takes over and jump to handlers.
    
    ```
    if(t == null) {
        throws new NullPointerException();
    }
    ```

> Exceptions allow you to think of everything that you do as a transaction,
 and the exceptions guard those transactions: "...the fundamental premise
 of transactions is that we needed exception handling in distributed computations.
 Transactions are the computer equivalent of contract law.
 If anything goes wrong, we’ll just blow away the whole computation."
 You can also think about exceptions as a built-in undo system, 
 because (with some care) you can have various recovery points in your program. 
 If a part of the program fails, the exception will "undo" back to a 
 known stable point in the program. ???
 
- Another benefit (compared with C/C++)
    - Exceptions allow you to (if nothing else) force the program to stop 
    and tell you what went wrong,  
    or (ideally) force the program to deal with the problem
    and return to a stable state.

## Throwing an Exception

- There are two constructors in all standard exceptions
    - Default Constructor
    - Constructor with a String argument
    ```
        throw new NullPointerException("t = null");
    ```
- After throwing exception, You end up in an appropriate 
    exception handler that might be far away—many levels
    on the call stack—from where the exception was thrown.
- In addition, you can 'throw' any subtype of __Throwable__.

## Catching an Exception

- _guard region_ :  
    A section of code that might produce exceptions and 
    is followed by the code to handle these exceptions.
- try block :  
    After you throw an exception, you will exit the method or scope.  
    If you do not want to do that, you can set up  
    a _special block_(try block) to capture the exception.
    ```
    try{
        // Code that might generate exceptions
    }
    ```

- The programming language without exception need to check every method  
    and surround with many test code.

## Exception Handles

- The thrown exception ends up in exception handler.
```
    try {
        // Code that might generate exceptions
    } catch(Type1 id1)|{
        // Handle exceptions of Type1
    } catch(Type2 id2) {
        // Handle exceptions of Type2
    } catch(Type3 id3) {
        // Handle exceptions of Type3
    }
```

- The handlers _must_ appear directly after the try block.
- Each catch clause is like a method that take only one argument.

### Termination vs. resumption

- Termination : Whoever threw the exception decides that 
                there was no way to salvage the situation, 
                and they don’t want to come back.  
- Resumption : the exception handler is expected to do something
                to rectify the situation.
- How to achieve resumption:  
    place your try block inside a while loop that keeps 
    reentering the try block until the result is satisfactory.
- ???

## Creating your own exceptions

- To creating an exception, you must inherit from an existing exception  
    and let compiler create a default constructor.
- Most of time an exception with the class name shown here is enough.
- Additionly, you can create an exception with a String argument.
- Demo : CreatingExceptions.java / FullConstructors.java
- Note : Prefer System.err(default) to System.out when using printStackTrace()

### Exception and Logging

- To log the exception using java.util.logging
- LogException1 / LogException2

## The Exception Specification

- Issue: If the source code of Exception is not available, we are encouraged for 
        to inform the client all exception that could be thrown.
```
    void f() throws TooBig, TooSmall { ... }
    void f() { ... }  // there is no exception except for RuntimeException
```
- Two Lies
    - Throw Exceptions No Specification (Wrong)
    - Compiler will force you to handle it or show the specification  
      
    - Specification Exception No Throw (CanDo)
    - It is important for interface/abstract class whose derived class needs to throws exceptions.

### Catching any Exceptions

```
    catch (Exception e) {
        ...
    }
```

### Display Message & Rethrowing

- Messages
    - String getMessage()
    - String getLocalizedMessage()
    - String toString()    --> short describtion
- Stack Trace
    - void printStackTrace(null/PrintStream/PrintWriter)
    - fillStackTrace()   --> useful when rethrow
- Demo : ExceptionMethods.java / WhoCalled.java / Rethrowing.java
- __Note__ : 
    - (1) The line where fillInStackTrace( ) is called becomes 
            the new point of origin of the exception when rethrow.
    - (2) The TwoException thrown by outer try is created 
            without any information about f().
    - (3) You never need to worry about the exception objects created
            on the leap, GC will clean them up automatically.

### Exception chaining 

- Often you want to catch one exception and throw another,
  but still keep the information about the originating exception.
- Demo : DynamicField.java (important)
- __Note__ : Two ways to init a Cause (important)
    - For RuntimeException, Exception and Error,  
        they provide a constructor with a _cause_ argument.
    - For other Exceptions (Throwable subclasses) 
        you do it through the initCause() method rather than the constructor.

## Standard Java Exception

- Throwable
    - Error : ???
    - Exception : basic type that can be thrown from methods and runtime accidents

- RuntimeException : A group of exceptions that are thrown _automatically_ by Java.
```
if (t == null)
    throw new NullPointerException();
```
- Two types of Exceptions
    - checked ~ : 
    - unchecked ~ :
- Demo : NeverCaught.java
- __Note__ : Only RuntimeException can be ignored since compiler 
            forces the programmer to handle all checked exceptions.

## Performing clean up with finally

- There are some code that you want to execute whether or not an exception is thrown.
- These codes are usually some _operators_  
    > Operators that set back its origin state  
        (open file, net connect and a switch to outside world)
    > Operators are not memory recovery sine GC has deal with it.
```
    try {
    
    } catch(A a1) {
    // Handler for situation A
    } catch(B b1) {
        // Handler for situation B
    } finally {
        // Activities that happen every time
    }
```
- Demo : FinalWorks.java

### Pitfall : the lost exception

- Case1 : A second exception is thrown before the first one is handled.  
    Demo : LostException.java
- Case2 : Using _return_ inside the finally block will silence any thrown exception.
    Demo : ExceptionSilencer.java
    
## Exception restrictions

|                 |    Constructors   |   Normal Methods  |
|-----------------|-------------------|-------------------|
| ExceptionAdding |  Derived >= Based |  Derived <= Based |

- Overridden methods can throw inherited exceptions.
- When using upcasting, you need to deal with all exception in 
    both based and derived class.

- Demo : StormyInning.java

## Constructors

- 
- Demo : InputFile.java


## Alternative approaches