# Generics

- Ordinary classes and methods work with specific types: either
  primitive or class types. If you are writing code that might be
  used across more types, this rigidity can be overconstrained.

- Methods to allow generation
    - (1) Polymorphism ---> classes
        The single hierarchy is overconstrained.
    - (2) any class implements ---> interface
        more general code with no specific type
    - (3)                  ---> Generics

## Generics (Parameterized types)

- It means "pertaining or appropriate to large groups of classes."
- The original intent of generics was to allow the programmer 
  the greatest amount of expressiveness possible when writing 
  classes or methods, by loosening the constraints on the types.
- It happens in _compile time_.

## Comparison with C++ (Reason)

- 1.Understanding C++ templates will help you understand the concepts
    and limitation of Generics.
- 2.There is significant misunderstanding about C++ template.

## Simple Generics

- One of the most compelling initial motivation is to create _container_ class.
    - We need a _more reusable container_ holding the _specific type_ of objects.
    - Demo :           Holder1.java                     Holder2.java
- Demo : Holder3.java

- The core idea of Generics is that you tell it what type you want to use, 
    and it takes care of the details.
- When you specify the type in <>, you are only allowed to put objects of that type or subtype,  
    And when you get a value out, it is automatically the right type.
    
### A tuple library (Holder Example 01)

- When you want to return multiple objects from a method call, you need a holder to contain them.
- This concept called tuple : some objects wrapped together.
- When you get the tuple, you can only read the objects however you cannot change them.
- Tuples can be any length, but each object in the tuple can be of a different type.
- However, if we want to specify the type of these objects, the recipient will get the right type.
- Demo : TwoMemTuple.java / ThreeMemTuple.java .... 
- Note
    - 1.final : cannot change members only to create a new tuple (safety)
    - 2.public : client cannot change them because of 1(final)  
                which reducing the getter and setter.

(__Important Note : Why cannot initialize a generics type array?__just like: T[])
- It's because Java's arrays (unlike generics), at runtime, information about its component type.
  So you must know the component type when you create the array. 
  Since you don't know what T is at runtime, you can't create the array.
- And what about ArrayList<T>?  
> Object [] 

### A Stack library (Holder Example 02)

- Demo : LinkedStack.java

- Inner class (_not static_) has access to the generic type parameters of its outer class.
- Exercise05.java


### RandomList (Holder Example 03)

- Suppose you'd like a special list of list that randomly selects one of the elements 
  each time you call select(). When you want to build it into a tool that work s with all objects.
- Demo : RandomList.java

## Generics Interface

- Using generics with interfaces is no different than using generics with classes.
- Demo : Generator.java / CoffeeGenerator.java 

- __Note:The first limitation of Generics in Java : You cannot use primitive as generics parameter.__
- Demo : Fibonacci.java / IterableFibonacci.java / Exercise07


## Generics Methods

- A generic method is _independent_ whether the class is generics.
- It is recommend that we should use generics method whenever we can.

- Usage
    > public [static] <T> void f(T x) { ... }
    > // place the generics before return value
    - No need to specify the parameter type when using the generic methods.
    - However, the static method cannot get generics information in class,
      if you want to use generics in static method, you must define it in the declaration.
    - The parameters of generic method work well with single, multiple and array of params.
    - Demo : GenericMethods.java / Exercise 09/10  / GenericVarargs.java


- ~~Then here we come the second limitation of generics : the type list is too long~~
> ~~Map<Person, List<? extends Pet>> petPeople = new HashMap<Person, List<? extends Pet>>();~~
- ~~Solution : Leveraging type argument inference~~
- Demo : New.java

- ~~Notice that type inference only works in the assignment.~~
- ~~When you return New.map() by a method with param-list, it will just be treated as Object.~~
- ~~Demo : LimitsOfInference.java / ExplicitTypeSpecification.java~~

### A generic method to use with __Generator__

- Demo : Generators.java

### A general-purpose Generator

- Demo : BasicGenerator.java

### Simplifying tuple use

- Demo : Tuple.java / TupleTest.java

### A Set utility



## Anonymous inner classes

- Generics can also work with inner classes and anonymous classes.
- Demo : BankTellerSimulation.java


## Build complex models

- An important benefit of Generics is the ability to 
    simply and safely create complex models.
- Store.java / Exercise19.java


## The mystery of erasure (Important)

### wedge

- ErasedTypeEquivalence.java / LostInformation.java
> new ArrayList<String>().getClass() == new ArrayList<String>().getClass()
> Output:true
> All you find using Class.getTypeParameters() is the identifiers instead of the real param type.

- The cold truth :  
    _There's no information about generics types available inside generic code._

### Erasure

- You only know the identifiers of type parameters and bounds of the generics type,
   you just cannot know the actual type when initialized.
- This is because Java implements generic using _erasure_.
    - Java only knows it is dealing with an Object, but the actual type is unavailable.
    - List<String> and List< Integer> are the same type at the run time.

- The comparison with C++ and Java

```cpp
#include <iostream>

using namespace std;

template<class T> class Manipulator {
    T obj;
    public:
        Manipulator(T x) { obj = x; }
        void manipulate() { obj.f(); }
};

class HasF {
    public:
    void f() { cout << "HasF::f()" << endl; }
};

int main() {
    HasF hf;
    Manipulator<HasF> manipulator(hf);
    manipulator.manipulate();
}
```

```java
// {CompileTimeError} (Won’t compile)
class HasF {
    public void f() { System.out.println("HasF.f()"); }
}
class Manipulator<T> {
    private T obj;
    public Manipulator(T x) { obj = x; }
    // Error: cannot find symbol: method f():
    public void manipulate() { obj.f(); }
}
public class Manipulation {
    public static void main(String[] args) {
        HasF hf = new HasF();
        Manipulator<HasF> manipulator = new Manipulator<HasF>(hf);
        manipulator.manipulate();
    }
}
```
- 1.Because of erasure, Java compiler cannot map the requirement that 
    manipulate() must be able to call f() in obj.

- 2.In order to realize this, we must assist the generic class by giving it a _bound_
    that tells the compiler to only accept the types conform to the bound. <? extends A>
- Demo : Manipulator02.java / Exercise20.java
- A generic type parameter _erases the first bound_, so in above case,  
    compiler erases T into HasF (the same as replace T with HasF).

- 3.This brings an important point:  
    _Generics are only used when you want type parameters that are more "generic"_  
    _that specific type (or its subtypes), that is, when you want code to work across multi-classes._
- However,  you cannot say all generic are flawed except for <T extends ClassA>,
    because generic is helpful when a method returns a param T.
- Demo : ReturnGenericType.java


- 4._Migration Compatibility (Why we use erasure)_ (P.488)
- In an erasure-based implementation, generic types are treated as secondclass types 
that cannot be used in some important contexts. 
The generic types are present only during static type checking, 
after which every generic type in the program is erased 
by replacing it with a non-generic upper bound. 
For example, type annotations such as List<T> are erased to List, 
and ordinary type variables are erased to Object unless a bound is specified.


### The problem with erasure

- When you use the generic for the derived class ---> No warning
- If not, ---> there is no warning util setter (generic type) is used.
- You cannot use <?> as an identifier in the based class because it is not concrete.

- Demo: ErasureAndInheritance.java

- So if you want to treat the type parameter to be more than just an __Object__, 
   you must make extra effort to manage its bounds, or you would lose type information.

### The action at the boundaries

- 1.Erasure puzzles that you can represent things that have no meanings.
- Demo : 
    - ArrayMaker.java  the type-checking is performed in compiler time. (generic erasure)
    - ListMaker.java   the type-checking is performed in the runtime because of reflection.
- Note that Array.newInstance() is the recommended approach for creating arrays in generics.

- 2. Boundaries in action
- Boundaries are the point where compiler is performing the generic operator.
- Because erasure removes type information in the body of a method, what matters at 
   run time is the boundaries: the points where objects enter and leave a method. 
- These are the points at which the compiler performs type checks at compile time, 
   and inserts casting code.
- Here are the comprison examples : SimpleHolder.java / GenericHolder.java

## Compensating for erasure

- Anything that requires the knowledge of the exact type at _runtime_ won't work.
- Demo : Erased (cannot be compiled)
```java
public class Erased <T> {
    private final int SIZE = 10;
    public static void f (Object arg){
        if(arg instanceof T) {} // Error
        T var = new T(); // Error
        T[] array = new T[SIZE]; // Error
        T[] array = (T)new Object[SIZE]; // Unchecked warning
    }
}
```

- _To realise the above operators we need do some extra efforts to support them._

- (1) Introduce a type field, operators at runtime can be used.
- Demo : ClassTypeCapture.java

- (2) Creating instances of types using a factory with type field (important).
- Demo : InstantiateGenericType.java / CreatorGeneric.java (TemplateMethod)

- (3) Creating an array with generic.
- Use an ArrayList everywhere that you are tempted to create an array of generics.
- Demo : ListOFGenerics.java
- The only way to successfully create an array of a generic type is to create a new array of the erased type, and cast that.
- Demo : GenericArray.java
- However, if you try to capture the result as Integer [] reference, 
    you get a ClassCastException, again because the actual runtime type is Object[].
- Because of erasure, the runtime type of the array can only be Object[].  
    If you cast it to T [] immediately, the actual type of array is lost at compile time.  
    So it is better to use Object [] in the collection util you want to use an array element
- Demo : GenericArray02.java
- If you call rep(), it casts the Object[] to a T[], which is still incorrect, 
    and produces a warning at compile time and an casting exception at run time.
- So we can use the refection to create the correct type array 
    and avoid the warning when calling rep().
- Demo : GenericArray03.java

## Bound

- Bounds allow you to place constraints on the parameter types that can be used with generics.
- Because erasure removes type information, the only methods you can call for 
    an unbounded generic parameter are those available for __Object__.
- If, however, you are able to constrain that parameter to be a subset of types, 
    then you can call the methods in that subtypes. 
> eg. <T extends BasedClass>

- Demo : BasicBounds.java

- We can eliminate the redundant in BasicBounds.java using inheritance.

- Demo : InheritBounds.java

## Wildcards

- 1. You can assign an array of a derived type to an array reference of the base type
- Demo : CorvariantArrays.java

- An Apple is a kind of Fruit, so an array of Apple should also be an array of Fruit.
- The difference behavior of compile and runtime:
    - the compiler allows you to place a Fruit object into the array.
    - The runtime knows that it’s dealing with an Apple [] thus throws an exception.

- But one of the primary goals of generics is to move such error detection to compile time.  
  So what happens when we try to use generic containers instead of arrays?
> // Compile Error: incompatible types:
> List<Fruit> flist = new ArrayList<Apple>();

- 2. Generic have no corvariance
- It says "You can’t assign a generic involving Apples to a generic involving Fruit."
- In other words, generic refuse to upcast like compiler.
- More specifically, a List of Apple is not a List of Fruit. 
  A List of Apple will hold Apples and subtypes of Apple, 
  and a List of Fruit will hold any kind of Fruit. 
  Yes, it includes Apples, but that doesn’t make it a List of Apple; 
  it’s still a List of Fruit. 
  List of Apple is not type-equivalent to a List of Fruit, 
  even if an Apple is a type of Fruit.

- Arrays are completely defined in the language and can thus have both compile-time and runtime checks built in,  
but with generics, the compiler and runtime system cannot know what you want to do with your types and what the rules should be.

- 3. Sometimes, however, you’d like to establish some kind of upcasting relationship between the two. 
- This is what wildcards allow.

- Demo : GenericsAndCovariance.java (cannot compile)

- List<? extends Fruit> actually means "some specific type which the flist reference doesn’t specify".
- So the List that’s assigned has to be holding some specified type such as Fruit or Apple, 
    but in order to upcast to Fruit, that type is a "don’t actually care."
- Then the compiler cannot know what type it is dealing with, how can you safely add an object?
- Finally, compiler prevents these occasion from happening before runtime system.

### How smart the compiler is ?

- Demo : CompilerIntelligence.java

- Notice that compiler still cannot konw the real type. This is because:
    - add() takes an argument of the generic parameter type;
    - contains() and indexOf() takes argument type of _Object_;
  - So when you specify a List <? extends Fruit>, the type argument of add()
    becomes <? extends Fruit>, so it won't accept any type of Fruit.  
    In the other two methods, there are no wildcards involved 
      and the compiler allows the call.
- __Note__: To disallow a call when the type is used with wildcards, 
            use the type parameter in the argument list.
- Demo : Holder.java

### Contravariance