# Arrays

- We need to perform some more sophisticated operators on arrays, 
   and evaluate the use of an array vs. container.

## Why arrays are special

- There are three issues that distinguish arrays from other containers: 
    _efficiency, type and the ability of holding primitive_.
- The array is Java's most efficient way to store and randomly access a sequence of Object.
- Demo : CollectionComparison.java

## Arrays are first-class objects

- Regardless of what type of array you’re working with, the array identifier is actually _a reference to a true object_ that’s created on the heap.
- This is the _object_ that holds the references to the other objects
- Demo : ArrayOption.java

## Returning an array

- Demo : IceCream.java

## Multidimensional arrays

- MultidimensionalPrimitiveArray.java
- Arrays.deepToString() turns multidimensional arrays into Strings.

## Arrays and Generics

- We cannot initialize the generic arrays.
- Erasure removes the parameter type information so compiler 
  cannot know the exact type of elements in order to force type safety.
> Peel <Banana> [] peels = new Peel<> [10]; // illegal
- Thus we cannnot initialize the generic arrays, however you can use the reference of generic array.
> List <String> [] ls;  // legal

- Demo : ParameterizedArrayType.java

- However, you can create a non-generic array and cast it.
- Demo : ArrayOfGenerics.java

- __Note(important)__ : Creating arrays of generic type that have been erased is illegal (Exception). However you can create an array of Object, and cast it, but without the @SuppressWarnings annotation you get an "unchecked" warning at compile time because the array doesn’t really hold or dynamically check for type T.
  That is, if I create a String[], Java will enforce at both compile time and run time that I can only place String objects in that array. However, if I create an Object[], I can put anything into that array except primitive types.
  
## Creating test data

- When experimenting with arrays, and with programs in general, it’s helpful to be able to easily generate arrays filled with test data. The tools in this section will fill an array with values or objects.

### Arrays.fill(array, oneValue)

- Fill one param in the array
- Demo : FillingArrays.java

### System.arrayCopy(i, 0, k, 0, k.length)

### Arrays.equals(a1, a2)


### Array element comparisons 

- If Comparable hadn’t been implemented, then you’d get a ClassCastException at run time when you tried to call sort(). This is because sort() casts its argument to Comparable.

